Digital Marketing is an incredibly powerful way to grow a business and to drive revenue.
But if you're new to digital marketing it can also be quite overwhelming there's so many different marketing
channels there's so many different tactics and strategies.
And so what I want to do in this video is get everybody on the same page and give you a high level overview
of how to grow a business with digital marketing really demystify it for you and give you that 30000
foot view.
So the first thing you need to know about digital marketing is that it's a process and the first step
in that process is to define a target audience.
The marketing channels like Facebook and YouTube are so big so noisy you need to be really clear about
who you're going after not only their age and gender and maybe where they live but also what are the
problems that they have.
How is your solution going to be better or different than the competition.
And also what difference is it is that solution going to make to their lives in terms of how those your
life going to be better.
You need to be able to paint a really clear picture to them of that.
And that's so important to be clear of right from the start because that's what you're going to be using
in your marketing messages and videos and posts.
to really capture their attention.
So that's the first step so important to do as an exercise.
Before you even jump in to the different market channels.
Now the next step in the process is to track that target audience with free content and Ads and you really
want to go on to the platforms that your target audience are already using.
And that could be the search engines with Google Facebook YouTube Twitter Instagram Linked-In whatever.
And in terms of how you attract them with free content well these 3 types of content that you can
really make. one is just how to type educational content could be how to articles that you post and to
appear on Google.
It could be educationalist style videos and for example if there is an e-commerce store that I know
that's selling women's hair extensions and they create videos like how to do a french braid and everybody
who searches for that finds their video and then maybe will buy their product which is a hair extension.
And the second type of free content that you can make is really more a kind of brand storytelling maybe
customer success stories testimonials that type of thing.
And the final type of content you can make for free to track your target audience is Entertainment's
style content.
You can see this a lot on YouTube.
People building up an audience with entertainment type stuff and then sending them back to their merchandise
store or you see a lot on say Instagram where influencers build up an audience kind of entertaining
content and sell affiliate products are promoted for the products.
Now you can also attract your target audience not only with free content but also with Ads and all of
these platforms have an Ad platform built in.
Google Google Ads Facebook ads YouTube ads Twitter ads Instagram ads and LinkedIn ads etc etc .
Now once you've attracted your target audience the next step is to really make sales and you want to
drive that audience back from those platforms to your website or your off line store.
Now many businesses will have an intermediary step between these two steps and that could be to build
up an email lists if you want to win the trust of the customer first before asking for a sale or maybe
don't have a product yet and you just want to build up an audience.
We can really just drive them to sign up your email lists or you can also use retargeting to really
get people who came to your Web site and retarget them back on say these platforms come back to your
Web site.
So those are some other kind of details there.
Now the final step in the process is really to measure and optimize and you can do this for free with
Google Analytics.
And really this is just to make the whole process better and better.
So if you know that a lot of people are coming to your site from YouTube and they're buying stuff well
you can see that in Google Analytics and then you can put more free content or ads on that channel to
really drive more sales.
But it's so important that you're measuring what you're doing because that's the only way that you know
what's working so that you can do more of it.
So I hope that this was helpful in demystifying digital marketing and this is hopefully clarified things
for you if you're an absolute beginner.
We're going to be going into all of these steps I've seen a lot more detail in the course but I do want
you to keep this in mind if you start to get overwhelmed and a bit confused just come back to the high
level view.
It's actually very simple at a high level what we are trying to achieve and how to grow business with
digital marketing.